oh
look at that a huge
three-toed sloth just sleeping right
there look at that
despite their reputation for laziness
sloths spend more time awake than asleep
they are polyphasic active for periods
during both day
and night
oh look she's starting to climb
climbing around the canopy in the dark
is risky
one wrong move could mean a fatal fall
for bryson it's a chance to witness some
of the sloths special adaptations
she's smelling the branch before she
crawls on it
they never will crawl on a dead branch
because if they do they'll fall out of
the tree
they've got an amazing sense of smell
slopes can detect a dangerously weak and
rotten branch in the darkness
by smell alone to help them move around
the canopy at night
they also create a mind map of trees
they have an amazing memory of the
canopy connections
so she probably knows exactly where
she's going
this law actually is low enough that i
think i get a closer look at it
it's just on the other side of these
vines
sloths spend most of their lives high up
in the canopy
finding one so low in the tree is rare
bryson has studied them for many years
this is a great opportunity to examine
one
hey wow wow she is beautiful look at her
she's absolutely gorgeous
so i've been working with sloths for 10
years now this doesn't really stress
that at all they're pretty comfortable
with it
they're so strange looking when you see
them up close
they are also surprisingly comfortable
with the insects in their fur
sloths actually have a special
relationship with a moth called the
sloth mop
and you can see him crawling all over
her right now and these moths spend
their entire life on the back of the
sloth
living in the slopes fur helps the moths
avoid predators
what the sloth gains from the
relationship if anything
is a mystery
oh taking my headlamp i think she's
ready to go home
i'll put her back in her inner tree
okay
all right back home
[Applause]
[Music]
you